Creating services :- First created three services Product service, Order service and Inventory Service and then created a parent project in which I have added all these services as modules.

Inter Process Communication :- Then, In OrderService class used webclient interface from WebFlux to send a request to InventoryService to check if the items in order are available or not.

Service discovery using Netflix eureka :- Created another module named discovery service and added the Netflix eureka server dependency. Also, added the Netflix eureka server client dependency in the rest of the services to register them as client in eureka and in OrderService class in the url of inventory added http:inventory-service/ instead of localhost. Then in localhost:8761 all the instances of the services were registered. Eureka registers all the clients with their spring.appication.name and saves their ip and port in a registry which it makes available to all the client services.

Api gateway :- To access all the services in one centralised port, I have implemented api-gateway in which I created another module and added spring-cloud-gateway dependency. Then added the eureka client dependency in api-gateway as well. Then, added some configurations in application.properties file which included where the request should be transported when we get requests with specific keywords like /api/product. since api-gateway is registered in eureka it gets the registry from eureka where it can find the ip and port of all the services just by their name.

Keycloak :- implemented keycloak to secure api-gateway and not other services, since all the services are internal and not exposed to outside world. added oauth2server and spring security dependency. For keycloak hosted an image in docker and created a realm and a client for client secret added the issuer uri of that client in application.properties file of api-gateway since it can get all the urls of keycloak from issuer uri. In postman, we need to add Oauth2 authorization and get the token and use it to access api gateway.

Circuit breaker :- I used resilience4j library to implement circuit breaker, it's main function is to check if inventory service is not responding to order service and also to implement some fallback logic if something like that happens. added resilience4j dependency in order service, then added some properties in properties file to tell resilience how much time it should be in open state and half open state. In controller I also implemented a fallback method in case circuitbreaker gets triggered(i.e. there is no response from inventory service). There is also timelimiter to implement how much time it should wait for inventory service. Similarly, there is also retry events for how much time it should retry.

Distributed tracing :- I used micrometer tracing to implemented tracing. As the name suggests distributed tracing traces the request made to the application and then I used zipkin which is a UI tool to visualize the tracing done by micrometer. Micrometer has a trace id for a particular request and has different span id for different trips e.g. api-gateway -> order service -> inv. service. So all the trips will have a separate span id. Added micrometer and zipkin dependency in all the services. then once made a req to gateway I could see the traces in 9411 port.

Kafka: I implemented Event Driven Architecture using Kafka. For kafka I have used docker to host it's image in port 9092.Added the spring kafka dependency. I created a kafka topic called as notificationTopic in which I am sending the order number using KafkaTemplate class. I created a module notification service and I subscribed it to notificationTopic kafka topic and after receiving the order number whenever the order is placed I printed it in the console. 

Dockerize the application :- To dockerize the application I have added jib plugin in the root pom file and also mentioned the container name for every services using project.artifact-id. After building the mvn using jib:build the containers gets build and pushed to the docker hub. After that I created a docker-compose.yml file to specify the containers I want in my docker desktop and then used the command docker compose up -d in terminal and hence all the containers gets pulled in docker desktop and all the containers starts running.

Monitoring microservices using prometheus and Grafana :- Added the dependency of Prometheus and Grafana in all the services. Used prometehus and grafana using docker containers in compose yml file. In properties file enabled the health actuator of all the services since Prometheus uses actuators to get the health data about the services and Grafana scrapes the data from Prometheus and visualize it using a dashboard. In Grafana UI, I added prometheus as a db and also provided prometheus port in Grafana. 